{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16700\viewh9760\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Tableau homework for Grant Thompson \
\
Data:\
Wrote python script in Jupiter notebook to combine the csv files I wanted to use. Ran into trouble saving to Tableau when I tried to use all of 2019 data. Changed course and decided to use the last three March\'92s to look at the impact coronavirus has had on March 2020, and the past three October\'92s to look at trends during a busy month as well as any impact the program\'92s female initiative has had on women riders. \
\
Some of the data manipulation I did: \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 Converted birth year to age in python and dropped birth year  \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 Created bins for ages, anyone above 70 was put into an \'93unknown\'94 bucket (1% of total)\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 Created alias for gender in tableau \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 Color scheme - found the colors used in citibike program, tried to incorporate where I could.  \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 New data source was created with a timeline of events and milestones in Citi bike history. Data was gathered from the programs website and Wikipidia. \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\fs20 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 Timeline required creating parameters and the use of actions for button clicks.  I found an example online and attempted to modify it for my purposes.. currently in debugging phase.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\fs24 New data source created with the high temperature for March 2020, as I wanted to look how much the change in ridership was due to the coronavirus and how much may have been due to changes in the weather \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Conclusions: Female ridership has stayed pretty flat despite initiatives to increase participation.  Coronavirus had a massive affect on ridership towards the end of march but in early march ridership was up over prior year, most likely due to the unusually nice weather.  And while few trips were being made, the average trip length increased substantially. This was likely due to people believing a bike was a safer alternative to other public transportation options. \
\
Final submission includes:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab560\li720\fi-720\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Timeline of the Citibike program as a dashboard\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Impact of coronavirus as a story\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}A dashboard featuring October results compared to prior year periods, including changes in total ridership, female ridership, membership/customer split and age groups.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Two maps showing the most popular bike stations for starting and ending a journey, along with a layer to show zip codes. \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}